Implement Prometheus remote write receiver compatible with sfx gateway (#3064)
signalfx/splunk-otel-collector: internal/receiver/signalfxgatewayprometheusremotewritereceiver/README.md

# SignalFx Gateway Prometheus remote write receiver

> 

Reviewer: @hughesjj Could you add here what the receiver is for?

> ## Limitations and Nuances in translation
> This receiver specifically obsoletes the near-exact behavior of the [SignalFx prometheus remote write gateway](https://github.com/signalfx/gateway/blob/main/protocol/prometheus/prometheuslistener.go).
> The behavior of the prometheus remote write gateway predates the formalization of the PRW v1 specification, and thus differs in the following ways.
> 
> - We do not [remove suffixes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/6658646e7705b74f13031c777fcd8dd1cd64c850/receiver/prometheusreceiver/internal/metricfamily.go#L316) as is done in the otel-contrib `prometheusreceiver`
> - It will transform histograms [into counters](https://github.com/signalfx/gateway/blob/main/protocol/prometheus/prometheuslistener.go#L98).
> - It will transform quantiles (summaries) into gauges.
> - If the representation of a float could be expressed as an integer without loss, we will set it as an integer
> - If the representation of a sample is NAN, we will report an additional counter with the metric name [`"prometheus.total_NAN_samples"`](https://github.com/signalfx/gateway/blob/main/protocol/prometheus/prometheuslistener.go#LL190C24-L190C53)
> - If the representation of a sample is missing a metric name, we will report an additional counter with the metric name [`"prometheus.total_bad_datapoints"`](https://github.com/signalfx/gateway/blob/main/protocol/prometheus/prometheuslistener.go#LL191C24-L191C24)
> - Any errors in parsing the request will report an additional counter [`"prometheus.invalid_requests"`](https://github.com/signalfx/gateway/blob/main/protocol/prometheus/prometheuslistener.go#LL189C80-L189C91)
> - Metadata from the `prompb.WriteRequest` is **ignored**
> 
> The following behavior from sfx gateway is not supported
> - `"request_time.ns"` is no longer reported.  `obsreport` handles similar functionality.
> - `"drain_size"` is no longer reported.  `obsreport` handles similar functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Known limitations

This receiver obsoletes the near-exact behavior of the [SignalFx Prometheus Remote-Writegateway](https://github.com/signalfx/gateway/blob/main/protocol/prometheus/prometheuslistener.go). The behavior of the Prometheus Remote-Write gateway predates the formalization of the Prometheus Remote-Write specification version 1, and differs in the following ways:

- The receiver doesn't [remove suffixes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/6658646e7705b74f13031c777fcd8dd1cd64c850/receiver/prometheusreceiver/internal/metricfamily.go#L316) as this is done in the otel-contrib `prometheusreceiver`.
- The receiver transforms histograms [into counters](https://github.com/signalfx/gateway/blob/main/protocol/prometheus/prometheuslistener.go#L98).
- The receiver transforms quantiles (summaries) into gauges.
- If the representation of a float can be expressed as an integer without loss, the receiver sets the representation of a float as an integer.
- If the representation of a sample is NaN, the receiver reports an additional counter with the metric name [`"prometheus.total_NAN_samples"`](https://github.com/signalfx/gateway/blob/main/protocol/prometheus/prometheuslistener.go#LL190C24-L190C53).
- If the representation of a sample is missing a metric name, the receiver reports an additional counter with the metric name [`"prometheus.total_bad_datapoints"`](https://github.com/signalfx/gateway/blob/main/protocol/prometheus/prometheuslistener.go#LL191C24-L191C24).
- Any errors in parsing the request report an additional counter,  [`"prometheus.invalid_requests"`](https://github.com/signalfx/gateway/blob/main/protocol/prometheus/prometheuslistener.go#LL189C80-L189C91).
- Metadata from the `prompb.WriteRequest` is ignored.

The following behavior from sfx gateway is not supported:

- `"request_time.ns"` is no longer reported.  `obsreport` handles similar functionality.
- `"drain_size"` is no longer reported.  `obsreport` handles similar functionality.
```

> ## Receiver Configuration
> This receiver is configured via standard OpenTelemetry mechanisms.  See [`config.go`](./config.go) for specific details.
> 
> * `path` is the path in which the receiver should respond to prometheus remote write requests.
>   * Defaults to `/metrics`
> * `buffer_size` is the degree to which metric translations may be buffered without blocking further write requests.
>   * Defaults to `100`
> 
> This receiver uses `opentelemetry-collector`'s [`confighttp`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/confighttp.go#L206) options if you would like to set up tls or similar.  (See linked documentation for the most up-to-date details).
> However, we make the following changes to their default options:
> * `endpoint` is the default interface + port to listen on
>   * Defaults to `localhost:19291`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Receiver configuration

This receiver is configured through standard OpenTelemetry mechanisms.  See [`config.go`](./config.go) for details.

* `path` is the path in which the receiver responds to prometheus remote-write requests. The default values is `/metrics`.
* `buffer_size` is the degree to which metric translations can be buffered without blocking further write requests. The default value is `100`.

This receiver uses `opentelemetry-collector`'s [`confighttp`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/confighttp.go#L206) options if you want to set up TLS and other features. However, the receiver makes the following changes to upstream default options:
* `endpoint` is the default interface and port to listen on. The default value is `localhost:19291`.
```
